- [Instructor] Before we get too deep
into the world of microservices design patterns,
I want to level set on the vernacular
that I will use when discussing microservices.
These are not authoritative.
These are just the terminology I learned and grew up on.
When I discuss microservices,
I leverage these terms often, and as such,
I just want to define them
so that you know where I'm coming from.
The first set of terms that I want
to define are service types.
These will be critical to understanding
how various patterns are implemented.
A data service is that which connects
to a data source within the system.
This does not mean databases alone.
Any valid source that can be served through a microservice.
Data services are usually bound by domains defined
within the global architecture of the system.
Examples of these services abound,
but a simple one to understand is a product service
that deals with a product domain.
Usually, these domains have details about products,
but not inventory or orders,
so they can be built as individual data services.
A business service is a higher level of abstraction
that builds on data services.
Often, we need to define business domains
that transcend individual data services
in order to be correct from the business perspective.
Business services can be built around a single data domain
if there is more complex business processing
that needs to be done in order to operate correctly
within the system.
One of the best examples of this is an order domain.
To place an order,
you need to have a product and customer data.
You also need the inventory data to ensure
that the product is available,
and then, as the order is placed,
you need to charge the customer
while decreasing your inventory counts.
As you can see, these are usually much more complex systems
than a simple data domain.
A translation service is any abstraction
on a third party operation that you want to encapsulate
under your own facade.
Think of something like an email sending service.
You may actually consume this service
from various parts within your system as a whole,
but you want to decorate that with sending logs
and specific credentials that you don't want littered
throughout your overall system.
As such, you encapsulate the service
with your own translation service.
The beauty of these services, and why I really like them,
is that when you change vendors, or versions,
of the third party system,
you can maintain your service API
and consume the new underlying service
without any other code having to change.
An edge service is responsible
for serving data to users and external services.
These services can be used to provide a web view,
a service that delivers that content,
and other services that deliver to mobile devices.
Often, we use edge services to slim down our payloads
to make them more mobile friendly,
or provide modified payloads that meet the need
of a third party contract.
While edge services aren't always used,
they can be a powerful layer
in a complete microservices architecture.
When describing a platform,
there are many different things that people can think of.
For the perspective of this course,
I will consider the platform
as the all-encompassing arena for all service operations
across multiple data centers, but thinking of it as whole.
First and foremost,
and definitely what people consider the platform,
is the runtime itself.
This can include bare metal servers,
virtualization through VMs, either public or private,
or containerized runtimes
like Kubernetes or Cloud Foundry.
I have spent time in each and every one of these runtimes
and I will be the first to admit
that none of them is perfect.
Running on bare metal servers
definitely is the most performant,
but there's a lot of pain associated with that.
Kubernetes, on the other hand,
is one of the most flexible,
but, again, it has its own pain points
and I cannot recommend one way or another,
but I will tell you this,
if you are running on multiple data centers,
especially public and private mixed,
containerization starts to become more and more attractive.
There are also a host of ancillary services
that you don't write, but that you run within the runtime
that are included in that platform definition.
These can be things like message queues, cash services,
authentication and authorization services,
and various others.
Some of these may be first class services
for your organization.
Like in mine, authentication and authorization
is a first class service that we build upon.
The key here is that the platform should include
everything that your applications need to get work done.
Also included are operational components.
These are things like log aggregators and shippers,
metrics aggregators and shippers,
and various other operations that you need to have running
in your platform in order to maintain operational integrity.
If I have learned anything,
especially in the move to more mission critical systems,
it's that operational components
should never be overlooked in a platform.
And, finally, I want to talk about diagnostic components.
These are anything from simple shell scripts
that you execute on your local machine
to containers running in your runtime
that enable you to connect and perform operations
from within the runtime itself
to diagnose, troubleshoot, and improve system performance.
For instance, we run a container in our runtime
that our team uses to connect internally
to the Kubernetes runtime itself in a secure fashion.
This allows us to test both low level components like DNS
as well as test the network and associated services
within the runtime.
So now that we have had a little conversation
about the vernacular and perspective of the term platform,
let's talk about cloud native.